:title: Customizing your blog using pagd
:author: prataprc

Read this `article <./blog-with-pagd.html>`_ to know how to set up your blog
site with pagd_ and host it using github_. Continue reading if you want to
customize your site with pagd.

adding fonts with google-webfonts
---------------------------------

Pagd by default comes with inconsolata font from google-webfonts_. Pagd
templates will load all font references from ``config.json`` file present under
your layout's root directory. Just append the reference url to the list of
``google_webfonts``. To apply one of the loaded fonts to page's <body>
element - set the ``font-family`` attribute in config.json.  The ``style``
property object in config.json will be converted to a string of
semi-colon separated list of CSS properties and applied to page's body element
as its style attribute.

.. code-block:: JSON

    { "google_webfonts" : [
       "http://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Inconsolata"
      ],
      "style" : {
          "font-family" : "Inconsolata"
      }
    }

Note that above settings are global to all pages in the site. If you want to
customize the fonts for specific elements in the page, then you must customize
them using ``media/myblog.css``.

let your readers mail you directly
----------------------------------

Pagd can generate a ``mailto:`` hyper-reference at the bottom of every blog
article, if you provide ``email`` meta-data for your pages. If you are
managing your site with git or mercurial then, you can add your email-id as
part of ``.gitconfig`` or ``.hgrc`` file. Otherwise, you can simply add your
email id along with the page content as meta data, like,

.. code-block:: rst

    :title: <Page title for this blog article>
    :author: prataprc
    :email: <emailid>

    ...
    rest of the content
    ...

note if you are not providing your email id as part of repository meta-data,
they you will have add it manually for every blog article that you are
creating under ``_contents`` sub-directory.

copyright
---------

Add your copyright information in ``config.json`` file placed under your site
layout's root directory, for eg.,

.. code-block:: json

   { "copyright" : "&copy; 2013 Pratap Chakravarthy" }


advanced customization
----------------------

Once you are comfortable adding pages under ``_contents/`` directory and
managing your ``config.json``, you must go through pagd_ package documentation
and learn now pagd.myblog layout is organized. Subsequently you can alter your
site layout either using CSS or directly by changing the template files. This
section gives a short introduction on them.

customizing with CSS
--------------------

Html elements generated by pagd.myblog template are selectable using CSS id
and class names. Under your site-layout, ``media/myblog.css`` file contains
the necessary styling attributes for your pages. It is generally divided into,

- CSS reset declarations.
- standard element styling applicable to all pages.
- targeted styling for specific html elements.

You can freely modify / add / remove CSS declaration as it suites your site.

customizing with templates
--------------------------

All template files for ``pagd.myblog`` layout can be found under
``_templates/`` sub-directory and uses tayra_ templating language to describe
them. Experimental support is available for mako and jinja2 templates, but use
them only if you are well-versed with pagd-tool. Pages generated by
`pagd.myblog` layout plugin is made up of three parts, header, container and
footer.

- ``index.ttl`` directly maps to ``_contents/index.<format>`` file. This
  template is used only for the index-page.

- ``_default.ttl`` template will be used for all other pages, if a matching
  template is not found for a page under _contents/ sub-directory.

- ``_head.ttl`` will go under <head> element of the page. Both index.ttl and
  _default.ttl templates include them.

- ``_header.ttl`` constitute the header portion of site pages. You can add your
  site-wide navigation links inside this template file.

- ``_footer.ttl`` constitute the footer portion of site pages. You can add
  acknowledgments, copyright notice under this template.

- ``_social.ttl`` adds social sharing features for your site. Uses
  `social_sharing` configuration parameter from `config.json`.

- ``_social/`` add all html snippets that you obtain from disqus, twitter,
  facebook etc...  under this directory.

To keep a tab on pagd_ - follow the
`project at github <https://github.com/prataprc/pagd>`_ and post your queries
to their mailing-list_.


.. _pagd: http://pythonhosted.org/pagd
.. _tayra: http://pythonhosted.org/tayra
.. _github: http://github.com
.. _mailing-list: http://groups.google.com/group/pluggdapps

.. _google-webfonts: www.google.com/webfonts
